welcome to GUI antigua browsers weekly
call for the last day of this month
I'm here with Dietrich and hug and let's
jump to agenda if anyone wants to add
something feel free to do so I've added
two first two items so I quickly go over
them and then we will go spend some more
time on the rest so the first one should
combine and recover from missing local
gateway so for a background we are
working on improving resilience in like
offline or like censorship and by maybe
not driven but like impacted
environments so if request for ipfs
resource files due to HTTP error or
network error and request to a public
gateway we will recover from that and
that will land or it landed in the
latest beta we which soon be published
to Chrome Web Store and Firefox MO but
basically we recover requests for
resources at the public gateway and the
question is what happens if local
gateway goes offline maybe it was shut
down maybe it crashed
how companion should act in theory we
could do similar thing
if requests to local gateway failed we
could recover and open the resource
using public gateway this is like a
seamless experience the potential con
for this is that it will leak
information about which resource user
was trying to open it will link that
information to the public gateway user
has in settings such as a public gateway
so that's like an open question I wanted
to broadcast if there are other like
other considerations
apart from this like privacy leakage I
should or like how you X should work
should that is it okay for this feature
to be enabled by default but behind it
like a toggle so people who can't
privacy conscious people can disable
this behavior so those are like
questions I wanted to highlight and like
ad-hoc thoughts on that I don't think so
it's do we have enough local gateway
usage like what's the what is the level
of a threat I guess every user we've
active as desktop is basically using
local gateway okay when we install IP
first companion it checks if local
gateway runs if not it the on the
welcome screen we explicitly ask people
to install ipfs desktop or go ipfs and
basically we communicate that that's the
default mode you should be using IP FS
companion as a companion to IP first
desktop so I feel most effective as
companion users will be running local
gateway but sometimes they will shut it
down forgot to run it or maybe they
would they bookmarked linked to local
gateway but the local gateway is no more
so I'd say like most of companion users
will be having this gateway we don't
have starts how many like request to
local gateway fails because we are not
tracking user actions can just desktop
have a log of where requests are coming
from so like this Desktop know that it's
its companion requesting we could
assuming those api's do not disappear in
manifest before we free we could add a
special header informing local gateway
that this request comes from web browser
with IQs compiled so we could do that we
don't do that yet but how would that
information be cool
it will like the implementation guide
which is for example we need to use an
information to make it useful yeah so
you'd have to like expose this
information to through like to the
country somehow the problem is like URL
that's that's pretty complex
yeah yeah and it's like also the problem
is we would be able to track requests
that reached like local a gateway we
won't be able to log request which
failed that thing needs to be locked at
the companion level so we are back to
come like tracking so the I think really
maybe focusing on what they end user is
trying to do might give us the best
answer here
yeah physical the the exposure
especially in the censorship mitigation
said it's they really do want to get to
that content and that is probably the
most important thing but some of the
design work that we have around letting
them know the relative risk of doing
that it's gonna maybe help the situation
and mitigate the level of danger there
because I think you're right like there
is a leakage and exposure if you're just
constantly sending out these C IDs out
to the Gateway that we're intended to
remain private but without knowing why
the user loaded it in the first place
that's very difficult to determine yeah
it may may be that it's feasible to do
this as an opt-in because like X like
leaking this kind of information as a
default we can just like tor project
cannot assume people
reading caldera docks and understand it
fully I don't think there's a risk that
people make certain assumption if we say
that companion is able to recover from
like censorship I think there's like a
deeper discussion around what well one
thing also what let's say that the
connection is made to the local gateway
and in the case so everything's working
local gateways up companion makes the
request to local gateway local gateway
makes that then you that's talking to
your desktop nerd and then you're just
talking makes that broadcasts that's the
ID to the public network at that point
right if it doesn't have the CID it's
default action is to essentially do the
same thing yeah so the information
leakage that happens at the idea fest
level is sort of like I want to like box
it I want to like keep that sort of
separates cuz we could imagine there
would be a private profile in ipfs which
runs only let's say tor transport does
not it has a ephemeral peer ID each time
it starts and things like that and then
the only like leakage affected would be
would you remain in companion yeah but
at that point like you really need to
have more explicit configuration and
communication around that to begin with
like companion and desktop would have to
have a much stronger and negotiated like
communication at that point so that the
user using companion knows that they are
protected in that way so I feel like
you're gonna solve that problem in the
UX explicitly in that case no matter
what yeah so I think you are right at
this stage how how transports and how
our likely provider announced like
announcing everything you have locally
to the HD if we recover from local
gateway we effectively do not leak
anything more than I give us no leaks
right now yeah I think
way to describe it is we don't leak
anymore than we would have ipfs is
working optimally as designed yeah
and that does there there are that
design we know is a known problem that
we need to fix yep it makes sense and if
there if we added this like privacy mode
at some point in the future we then
would like disable this behavior detect
that yep all right I think that's enough
for that let's move to the next one I
try to make this even shorter so we are
publishing our browser extension to both
Mozilla and Google stores so every
chromium based web browser is basically
installing a sign package from Chrome
Web Store and the Google is in the
process of like introducing a new set of
web extension API switch significantly
change the capabilities of extensions
and those new IP eyes are not even
published yet
nor we know what to really expect there
is no nightly chromium built which
enables us to play with it yet however
Chrome Web Store already started making
life more difficult if your web
extension is using those powerful API
eyes so it's very unfortunate for us
because we we have both better and
stable channel on Chrome Web Store and
right now due to the fact that we use
those powerful api's every new every
release both beta and stable goes into
this in-depth review which means instead
of like being published within one hour
it may take now multiple days or weeks
before the published version is
available to the public
that also impacts brake integration
because that toggle and brave is using
chrome webstore sin means of
distributing design package so that's
that's unfortunate especially for the
better channel because I released a new
better today and the problem is it's not
on the Chrome Web Store I believe at
least it was not before this code so I
released it two hours ago and maybe it
is nope it's still in the review so
that's that's the problem like on
Firefox it's available immediately
because we are self hosted on Chrome we
use Chrome Web Store for our
distribution of the better channel and I
think we are not able to do anything
about this maybe we could switch to self
hosted beta this is the most mostly a
PSA in case someone wants to try the
latest batons or stable or C's there's a
new companion version but it's not
available for Chrome that's why it might
take a week or more to be published and
we're still trying to figure out how to
mitigate that I think that's it from me
it's only gonna get harder yeah it's
like this is the beginning yeah it's I
understand changes of api's and things
like that but it's like bit frustrating
that we are being like vanished but we
are not provided with api's that's
replaced those IPS that are being
deprecated so it's like yeah it's a it's
the classic google classic google move
which is to deprecate the old product
before the new one has been but at the
API level but in this case like you know
by design they want to eradicate that
permission like they they've made it
pretty clear
they don't want ad blockers to exist and
that permission allows you to do like
it's a pretty broad permission so I kind
of understand that you know it's a very
it's always we know when we were
building Firefox it's the most risky
permission I could give an add-on view
into every bite that crosses the network
from there from there for people who are
not familiar we are talking about web
request api's especially like the
blocking version which lets you both
like inspect every request that goes and
every response that goes back so you can
check like headers companion is using
that to tell oh this is a request for
ipfs resource and i will redirect it to
local gateway and that's why we need
this permission on every web site so
every web site can use content
addressing and it will be supported
out-of-the-box yeah we'll see what time
what will I'm waiting for manifest
version free at least to land to this
nightly build of chromium so we at least
can see what we are able to re-implement
and what functionality of companion will
be lost because right now we are not
even able to participate in discussion
curve because there's like no API draft
not even like a document with example of
API so we are not even able to like on
the piece of paper just to prototype
nothing yeah Huck do you want to talk
about idea Scott cohost yes I just
watched PR to make ipfs co-host
compatible with the spec so that I was
wondering if we should release the 2.0
version for pesco hosts or address some
issues first such as testing or the
lingo of GSI PFS
yeah I have thoughts on that so my
thoughts on that if we release it as 2.0
right now it will spawn and by jacek if
s and we'll still include it as a
dependency right yeah yes so then where
if we decide to do like convert this to
a proper library which is not bundling
then we need to like release 3.00 again
right yeah that's true
let me just check which is the
introduced version like if it we could
if it's 1.0 yeah it is we could do with
1.1 because there's no breaking changes
we only made additions and I know we
remove the flag mmm there's a breaking
change now I think it's like switched to
2.0 is it's a good a better idea cuz we
effect if you change the entire back and
how those websites are hosted yeah yeah
I I think I feel if we wait for like
this decision or like refactoring
Jessica's out it maybe take more more
time to be released so maybe just
released 2.0 and then if we decide to
convert it to library find them it's
like 3.0 just a number right you all
right
and then we could add it to co-hosting
spec like repo okay the green so people
can like actually play with the spec
without like so there's a value in
releasing it you give a more polished
implementation of co-hosting spec and we
could start playing with it in companion
and desktop yeah because it's is it a
problem that like is the problem for
developer it takes more space like node
modules
take small space but like I just
combined depends on Jase ipfs anyway IP
first desktop may add support to JSA
give us anyway at some point so for our
projects it does not matter and for
other projects PRS welcome that would be
my approach I think ok I'll get is
really stay thank you Dietrich do you
want to tell us about browser vendor
design guidelines yeah well if when I'm
able to find that tab it's the word well
sure
so a quick discussion about the
introduction into a project that we'll
be doing over the next few months with a
designer will be joining us temporarily
to work on this this the idea is that
when we talk to browser vendors they
have existing web standards and design
teams and security teams that at that
intersection of security and user
interface design iconography and visual
communication patterns for the things
that we see in the browser relative to
thinks we should be concerned about so
is your connection secure or not the
padlock very familiar with everybody but
whether they understand it or not it's a
whole different question but either way
a lot of thought a lot of practice a lot
of experience and a lot of care goes
into the treatments and the visual
treatments of how things are
communicated when a navigation event
happens in the browser so the idea here
is that for ipfs we have a set of use
cases about what ipfs provides in the
browser is an well articulated threat
model around the things that it needs to
communicate suggestions for UX patterns
and interaction design patterns and
recommendations and experiments in
iconographic treatments for what types
of icons should actually be in the URL
bar when my professors present in a way
that that communicates the things that
users may or may not need to be
concerned about when loading
cryptographically verifiable yet can
come from anywhere a p2p content and a
browser for the first time that's really
ever happened in a in a meaningful way
we can use this materials when we're
talking to browser vendors and when
we're talking to standards bodies when
we engage that w3c in the IETF to
communicate have something tangible to
communicate and open a discussion about
so far you know we've seen several you
know interactions where you know
standards Fridays or I gotta that's just
what you guys are just doing it's crazy
when you just ask them to come to your
world so this is more of a let's bring
the mountain to them and very clearly
state the problems that we're trying to
solve and
a set of recommend provide a set of
recommendations almost like I said of
instruction manual for them to follow or
a design kit that speaks the language of
the of the design teams that would be
implementing this in browsers sort of
their very least reviewing it so they're
aiming to start hope hopefully there's a
couple of weeks on this work and will
definitely be present to get here the I
prevents desktop and ipfs companion
applications are the the user facing are
you know artifacts of the office project
for the most part so in or at least for
the internal work that we do so we'll
probably be using those as guinea pigs
to test out some of this material and up
experiment with applying it to how we're
implementing user interface related I
professed but it should be should be
pretty fun and useful and something
we'll hopefully be able to leverage all
through next year in our conversations
with other partners I just wanted to
give you a sneak peak in heads up about
that work that we'll be starting to see
yeah it's super exciting and especially
like in Firefox
I see how companion could be like a
vessel for look like implementing it and
look at how it would look like because
like in interesting facts in chrome you
are not able to add both page action and
browser action so browser action is this
button icon in the toolbar and the page
action is also an icon but it's on the
right side of location bar address bar
sorry it's address because we are not
location addressed anymore those days
like like small new small nuances like
that are are really important because
that change that change in language does
signify a pretty major or significant
yeah a protocol where the command the
content comes from how many people are
hosting kids can I co-host it should
there be an interface for co-hosting the
right there things like that so yeah
it's exciting brave maybe perhaps yeah
so
we talked about it browser week was we
identified the set of changes that we
need to be made in order to be able to
call the brave integration a 1.0 what is
what has done mean for that first set of
work so I figured this meeting is
probably the right place definitely this
is about the right time since we're now
one third through the quarter and we had
a goal of shipping that by the end of
the quarter so this is probably good
time to do it a quick review of where we
are with regards to that work and what
needs to happen next so you know meeting
with brave and talking about either like
you know joints blog posts where we
announce the you know ready ready ready
for use launch as well as you know we
talked a little bit before too about
maybe do a deeper technical post that
identifies the unique and innovative
work that's been done to be able to make
that happen
yep I can look give a quick very short
overview and then we can discuss so
there's a project called brave in ipfs
companion repo which gives you sort of
like an overview of related tasks and
what's ongoing and what's done however
there is this progress this is the big
meta meta issue which has some
challenges already tackled some are not
I need to go over this list again
because I've been not looking at this
most like working here and update this
this project but long story short things
that really remained to be implemented
our local discovery for browser nodes so
right now embedded JS ipfs is able to
detect go IP affairs in local network
but it's not able to announce itself
there's this open problem of DNS its
coverage service being already taken
like the port being already taken that
may be the problem with polyfills
or it may be just a problem with Chrome
OS API
so it's something I need to look at what
reminds him to be done is to see if it
can be addressed if not we probably need
to add additional discovery method just
for like Chrome OS notes running in
Chrome OS environment basically all were
browser notes such as select brave they
would have additional discovery method
on top of all the standard ones so it's
not like we are introducing something
custom to replace the generic one the
generic one will still be there
we when the note he discovers other
notes it runs all discovery methods in
parallel and he gets all the results
from all of them I feel that's that's
the plan for addressing this and we
should plant this and apart from that
that's like the only liquor miss missing
feature on our end the rest is mostly
performance improvements so there are
like quirks buts like there are multiple
issues related to performance
improvements but honestly most of them
fall under the problem with extensive
use of preload or delegate nodes so I
introduced this throttling when you we
don't send more than four parallel
requests however there are like there
are additional limits in chromium not
this one gosh where is it
brave Great Wave yes I believe this one
yeah so it's like
we are we are triggering anti-ddos
protection at both preload nodes now and
as well there is a separate I believe
yes so this one is our preload nodes
throttling us and this one is chrome
itself is saying oh this extension is
not naughty and it blocks outgoing
requests before they leave your machine
because turns out there is like a
built-in anti-ddos protection so if you
have an extension which starts behaving
badly and there's like a terroristic
here so if you get multiple HTTP errors
in some time window your extension is
blacklisted and it's not able to send
requests and basically the problem is
our api's are returning HTTP error 500
if like DNS link is not present which is
like not very HTTP semantics it's like a
technical depth from the time when HTTP
API was used only from by the
command-line client of the go ipfs but
now it has unexpected consequences like
this so but you can see it's mostly like
related to the fact that when we start
when your bra nodes start browsing let's
say Wikipedia because all those errors I
just show you those errors come from the
fact that I love that Wikipedia page and
there are multiple pictures and then
each picture is one or more blocks and
all those blocks are requested using
like delegated the engage the queries
delegate that concentrating computing
and that's like a lot of requests to the
rubber preload nodes so long story short
do something we need to figure out
something are about this either add a
better limit or like remove limits at
our preload interrogate nodes try to add
a wholistic on our end to be below this
threshold of chromium
so that's a mitigation long-term
solution is to remove delegated routing
and replace that with native DHT but
that won't happen this quarter this
quarter is basically focused on a
secrete factor and if we are able to do
that in jail and that's very good
quarter so we probably it will be at
least six months before we have tested
and highly functional DHT in Jas so
until that happens we will probably need
to solve the problem on the problem with
delegate delegate its requests the the
the chrome limitation heuristic probably
should be implemented deep in the core
anyway right like there is there is no
circumstance under which we do not but
that we want to surpass that we want to
hit that limit right thing yeah so
that's the problem like I understand the
one of fixes would be make our API to
stop returning invalid error code make
it like 404 maybe that seems like a that
seems like a much much more aligned with
the intent and purpose of the problem is
like that's requires change to go ipfs
and release of corrective s and then it
requires change that release to be
installed on our gateways so it may be
faster to address it temporarily at the
level of our delegated routing modules
cause to me that seems like we want to
make that go change as early as possible
it's gonna take if it's something we
know we need to do either way and it's
going to take a while then it seems like
maybe we should get that we should get
that requested to go to prioritize that
fix but that's the problem
yeah that's this like HTTP 500 is a
problem it's a big problem across entire
API because it's not just this one
endpoint the entire API behaves that way
and all the HTTP
clients expect that behavior so you can
see how fast we balloon the scope of
this change that's why I again it I
address I had fully understand it should
be fixed but I am also realistic that
before this gets fixed in go and our
gateways and our libraries we will have
the HD in Jas and will no longer need to
solve this problem so that's me just
being pragmatic right all right and I
understand so I have another question
which is less about the contents of
these things then maybe we it then then
reframing what 1.0 means we've kind of
assumed that so far that embedded note
is part of 1.0 even though embedded note
is clearly marked experimental and
actually not necessarily recommended for
for production use so I I wonder if we
are able to just maybe if for one of the
options that we have to be able to kind
of make sure that we close up this work
it also kind of aligns with how opera is
approaching it to which is just gateway
is their initial release what if we
pushed on the local network discovery
bit for 1.0 and made that part of 2.0
when we have kind of better
understanding of what embedded node
capabilities are going to be anyway and
better understanding of the performance
and and I can resource consumption of
that and instead fix some of these
performance issues and then all that
call that at one point oh yeah because
it's not like just to clarify it's not
like without this discovery to break
browsers are not able to discover each
other and to exchange like that the
problem is these discovery is
facilitated by a centralized signaling
server so that's which is how everything
else works today yep our bootstraps now
nodes are basically the same thing right
very true and JIT FS does not remember
peers between rest arts and all that
just so yeah I agree there's something I
hope too
land in v1 but now after we broaden the
scope of this like browser design
guidelines which will be created
I believe it's not we will also probably
discover this address bar from the v1
that's probably for the next next
iteration hopefully we will if we have
guidelines we will provide those
guidelines to brave and then pray for
you implement I like sort of like
started this discussion like maybe not
that this started discussion just like
showed the problem and a different
direction in which we'll probably move
right like when you remove local gateway
from the picture how do you present that
in address bar that the green padlock is
go away what replaces it's things like
that I feel that will be the part for
the design work you describe so I feel
yep
that probably also will be discovered
from this yeah I think I think that
makes sense and well I think maybe what
we should do is kind of like it is in
very coarse blocks we can think of like
v1 of integration as things like
companion by default local gateway
access these types of things you know
the v2 of browser integration that next
major step would be deeper deeper levels
of integration either in the UI or
embedded node and then like that final
third layer and I kind of lead this out
in the browsers post as well now final
third layer is when we have a native
implementation that middle one is more
that deeper integration level is where
things like a protocol handler would be
or a node so like in if you chop it up
into those course three stages kind of
makes sense oh yeah and in the v1 we
still have like amber that node but it's
still clearly labeled as an experiment
opt-in experiment yep actually basically
it's like solving the problem with
delegate and preload requests yeah
yep okay so I think I think that means
then so that these days a couple of
performance issues are gonna be the
priority for brave for this the quarter
and then in our next meet up with them
we can talk about what may be a unified
like let them know about this phased
plan and then talk about when we want to
when we would expect Chavez performance
issues ready when they would and when
they would be ready for a kind of like a
joint announcement I will I will I will
try to get up early yeah call status
yeah this was actually just an it that I
had about and you know that we have the
project operations meeting and then we
have the now a weekly cross-functional
meeting where it's like all of the
different working groups and project
finishes and efforts share a status and
you know I look at I look at this
meeting notes and there's a lot usually
a lot of stuff but one of the asks that
I had for you all is when you note
things here maybe just put like a check
mark or something for something that you
would like to be highlighted in that
weekly status so there's always a bunch
of different things landing and it it's
hard to keep up with all of that stuff
but one thing that would make sure that
we're providing the whole project with a
view into the work that you are doing on
desktop and on companion and even stuff
where you're contributing to other parts
of the project is to make sure to mark
those and list those here and then
that'll make it easier for us to be able
to broadcast those wins and those
achievements that you have made to the
brother project so that everybody knows
how amazing and awesome you both are I
was trying throughout the section and
now my hot bath is offline oh now it's
online I think in the past like when it
was with the GUI working group we had
like a highlight section so maybe we
could like replace this like team
updates with highlights and basically
have drug or just copy specific links
there yeah exactly it just copied up
there because I think it's really nice
to be able to see what
you the log of things that you both
thought were important enough to do and
your individual work stream as well I
think that's that's totally cool so if
there are specific things that you're
like people should know about this then
maybe yep but pop them up on the top is
that's a correct work I vulcanize for
this meeting look I know it's just so
booked Earth's an email out or slack
miss or something like that about a
system he came up with for using crypt
pad and like Auto meeting notes
generator for it and I owe you my talk i
I know I was looking for the link to
before this medium like it's I can't
remember where he posted it but I just
thought I'd bring it up with something
we could look at to reduce the the
overhead of of doing the the new
generation I would love for all of our
they'd give us meetings I'm like when
unified system that takes the manual
aspect out of it is so manual just to
post notes right now I think it was the
new I'm sorry I think it was an email to
shift yeah I found it do you want me to
share it or send email ID I don't see
any link okay it's published I will send
you the link
alright yeah I don't think we need to
make a decision or anything today but I
thought it'd be worth bringing up and
looking at and ask him a question
maybe we should decide evaluate it oh
yeah I think like I can try use it like
this week for this call and maybe give
feedback how it went
yeah so I remember this it's basically
creating a peer out it's automating all
those manual steps we usually I need to
do to publish this idea first team
management people
yep it's right there is it when why do
work when we can use robots all right
also my TFS policy I believe it's a
follow-up for last week's discussion
yeah and I forgot to edit first yeah so
I don't like feet just to remind it's
like we have this also my PFS our
website like different projects articles
data set services built or using EFS and
it's backed by a repo and problem is the
repo has a lot of PR so pans and we
don't have a written policy what is
considered awesome or not awesome what's
the threshold for including something
into this website we did not I did not
look at it nor road and it thoughts on
this policy did you like have time to
think about this what would that be
or should we like take it I think just
create an issue in in awesome ipfs repo
sir I'm trying to find it there already
is an issue about the resilience already
from Victor from some years ago I think
yeah if you can like find it and add it
to agenda it will at least be like an
action item to drop some thoughts on
that issue yeah okay I just did and it's
yeah this is something that would be
what it would be worth talking about in
and when one of the things we should put
at the top of the agenda because
take some time and I think that's what
we said last week - yeah I think we
after this call I probably put it at the
very top for the next week
yes yeah just do that and dedicate 30
minutes to it yeah and everyone will
have time to basically get familiar with
historical look outlook because yeah we
need to like just spend time and and
tackle this and publish it so we can
include more people in okay apparently
why when I picture this updates it is
supposed to connect it up check the
latest start yml file checker serves the
new release and download it which is
normal this is HTTP but this is a
partisan RCE system I didn't know about
I don't know what that is but apparently
for some reason I professor stop
disconnecting - now trying to download
load and using git for some weird reason
I don't know how to check if that's
really happening like this that specific
image is not wrong it should connect a
good app through HTTP or the binary so
it stands but it's part and the node
part that's something I don't know about
because electron has nodes built in so I
think it might be node itself checking
if there are updates for nodes I don't
know if that can be the reason I
searched about it I couldn't find
anything about it but it might be I
don't know if node itself checks for new
releases yeah it's it's something we
probably could look deeper with - like
Wireshark or
TCP dump like start recipe Affairs is it
like on Windows or is it yeah let's make
apparently but I don't know what RC is
but it's some system run exploit right
no it's like remote code execution
execute a yeah yeah it's like it's like
useful tool and I I agree a lot of
people may have this type of software
running and it may raise some eyebrows
why ipfs is trying to connect amazing
yeah but I mean some make sense because
not on that specific screenshot but the
github binaries are store stored on
Amazon so then I don't know why not -
that's not bad yeah that's also like I
think we are using github which is like
centralized service for publishing our
artifacts instead of like using our
gateway might be right because if you if
the domain here was IDF Sao I don't
think he this issue would be here or the
discussion around this issue would be
different the problem is you have github
here which is like owned by Microsoft
and then you who is really concerned
about this and then you have AWS which
is owned by Amazon and then you got and
both are used by a TFS which is like
sort of like trying to replace an AWS s3
and I'm like yeah I agree why why it
could raise some eyebrows but I don't
know if we are able to solve this
assuming it's like our upgrade mechanism
which is like checking this URL around
it it's supposed to be yeah I'm not sure
if we are able to easily replace this
because it's like out of the box
solution we are using for publishing
binaries for I believe windows and
chrome right which are dates also
snap and up image I think no yeah yeah
yeah yeah but I yeah I
these auto-update mechanism letters
choose between either been trained or a
custom HTTP website so far like we could
use this type FS the real perpetual
there's an issue about about that when I
business system yeah if so if we are
able to like the lee replace that with
our like self hosted solution we do that
just to remove like those HTTP requests
to github and amazin the quick could run
have like a dedicated subdomain for that
like like updates ipfs io or something
so in those tools
it's like self descriptive hostname that
removes like oh why this software is we
could call it like out updates ipfs ago
or something and there's a valuing dad's
like all like if you're running tour
node you want to like have a specific
host name that says tour exit node
something something so when like network
security people are inspecting stuff or
incorporate environments they are like
aggregating logs and then in different
city country person is looking at
aggregated logs and looks at the host
names that are repeated those
self-describing host names are super
useful okay could we use just reuse dist
we only have adjusted I profess that I
ship updates the problem is like this
electron update mechanism
it's probably like requiring custom
manifests to be published right yeah so
we we either need to do a PR to the
district or we need like a separate
domain I think that that's
not a topic for this call we can like
take this a sink and decide but like
personally I I see it like a way to
address this is to basically move to a
self-hosted solution because I fully
understand why people get comfy with
this all right I like the idea that
we're dogfooding
as well as the fact that we will never
stop fighting those battles as long as
the mission of our organization is to
allow people self agency in owning their
own data and be able to communicate
without is specifically that list of
software companies I think that no we
will always be fighting that battle for
as long as that we are really really
using them as apart from apart from like
like security the fact that you are
sending to a third party requested a
third party
it's also like pretty by the optics it's
also it also could be just bad for that
person
as well yeah like not just optics but it
could be it could be a threat to that
person here in the US that's a that's a
clear and present danger yeah that
person could be targeted the like
certificate for the trap or something
could be in theory replaced by some
countries and the green padlock will
still be there right yep I think like
the gist of this discussion is we need
to look what's needed to switch to self
hosted solution so if you remember if
you remember in Italy please write down
if not we probably need to make this
research and OH
anything we need from like infra team if
we if it's like a static content then
it's much easier because we then
basically just publish it to ipfs create
a DNS link to some host name if it's
like a dynamic website that you need to
run some software then we need to work
with infra team but it's still something
we need to self host cause like more and
more people will be using a
different desktop and they will be
relying on auto-update mechanism and
that mechanism should be like if it's
supposed to ask third power like third
party it should be like protocol ops
server not like someone else right I'm
checking the electron midsection they
say they support out of the box it
releases Amazon digital oceans entry and
generic HTTP servers here's the idea so
perhaps perhaps is an opportunity to
create a provider at IKEA first provider
for electron build to like publish
releases to ipfs somehow just just an
idea because if there's this needs to be
sort of like a plug-in system if they
support github and something else
something else right yeah there is a
sudden I see me IP NS will be fast
really soon so any moment now
and that will honestly that would be
probably the best case if we remove
reliance on DNS for updates but even if
not going with DNS link would be better
than going through github
alright guys I feel that's more or less
a conclusion for sad and also like for
agenda anything left we go to two and
half minutes now the another
action-packed high high high value
stream Lee productive 57 minutes it's
incredible how we always manage to feel
entire hour no matter how many agenda
items we have but if you change the
meeting to half an hour when we get the
same amount I think we've awesome things
done it still takes one hour yeah if it
were to change it in the chamber in the
calendar I it was a good hour though I
guess was my point
that was our well spent I see how it is
like making agenda for the next week so
I think we should end this week's one
and you are just adding awesome
eyepieces oh I know we don't forget
[Music]